Add pros and cons for content reuse (#525)
grafana/writers-toolkit: docs/sources/write/reuse-content/_index.md

---
aliases:
  - /docs/writers-toolkit/write/reuse-content
date: 2022-02-22
description: Learn about reusing content in your documentation.
keywords:
  - sharing
  - reuse content
menuTitle: Reuse
title: Reuse content
weight: 800
---

# Reuse content

Grafana's publication process can handle reusing content from snippets to whole directories.

There are some limited cases where it may be useful to reuse content in more than one location.
For example, a procedure for adding a panel to a dashboard applies to an open source and enterprise product.

## Before you begin

Before you begin reusing content, it's important to understand the tradeoffs.
Reusing content introduces maintenance overheads that can be greater than the overhead of maintaining separate content.

You can reuse content in the following ways:

1. Link to definitive content
1. Share chunks of content
1. Mount directories of content

The following sections discuss each option in detail.

### Link to definitive content

> Instead of including content directly in your documentation, you can link to the definitive source instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of directly including content in your documentation, you can link to the definitive source.
```

#### Pros

- You can reuse content immediately.

#### Cons

- You have no control over the content.

>   If the definitive content changes, your link may become out of date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If the definitive content changes, your link may need to be updated.
```

### Share chunks of content

You can reuse chunks of content using the `docs/shared` shortcode.
To do this, refer to [Reuse shared content](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/reuse-content/reuse-shared-content/).

#### Pros

- You can reuse small amounts of content.
- You can maintain the content in one place.
- You can compose the shared content with other content.

#### Cons

> - You need to perform initial setup to create the shared content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You need to perform the initial setup to create the shared content.
```

### Mount directories of content

You can reuse whole directories of content using Hugo mounts.
To do this, refer to [Reuse content with Hugo mounts](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/reuse-content/hugo-mounts).

> With this option, you share not only content but also structure: each page has exactly the same heading structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this option, you share content and structure. Each page has exactly the same heading structure.
```

We could use a semicolon here... but I usually try to split it into two distinct sentences instead.  Sentences can be short.

Author: I'm always fine with short sentences so the linter doesn't ask me to think about if my use of a semi-colon is justified or not :D

> If you want flexibility in page structure, you need to use another option instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want flexibility in your page structure, you need to use another option instead.
```

Or `the page structure`?

Author: Both work for me

#### Pros

- You can reuse large amounts of content with minimal effort.
- You can maintain the content in one place.

#### Cons

- There is no conditional text within pages.

>   Conditional text complicates the source file and makes it harder for external contributors to understand so it isn't implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Conditional text complicates the source file and makes it harder for external contributors to understand, so it isn't implemented.
```

- You have to maintain two destinations for each link.

>   Notably, for content reused between OSS and Grafana Cloud documentation, you want to within each documentation set rather than having the reused content link back to the OSS documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Notably, for content reused between OSS and Grafana Cloud documentation, you want stay to within each documentation set rather than having the reused content link back to the OSS documentation.
```

>   Notably, for content reused between OSS and Grafana Cloud documentation, you want stay to within each documentation set rather than having the reused content link back to the OSS documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notably, you want to stay within each documentation set for content reused between OSS and Grafana Cloud documentation rather than have the reused content link back to the OSS documentation.
```

  To do so, use [`docs/reference`](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/#docsreference).

>   If both pages link to the same place, then probably that link shouldn't exist in the reused documentation and this is an indication that the documentation isn't appropriate for reuse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If both pages link to the same place, then that link probably shouldn't exist in the reused documentation,and this indicates that the documentation isn't appropriate for reuse.
```
